# Release-and-recapture-experiments-in-optical-tweezers
Monte Carlo simulation of release-and-recapture experiments in optical tweezers to determine the temperature of trapped ytterbium atoms
Here, I perform a Monte Carlo simulation of release-and-recapture experiments in optical tweezers to determine the temperature of trapped ytterbium atoms. In the experiment, we turn off the tightly focused laser beams for a variable time \delta t and look at the atom recapture probability P_RR(\delta t) once we turn the tweezers back on.

For the simulation one needs to simulate the trajectories of atoms initially trapped in the tweezer after the trap is turned off. For that we have to assume a thermal Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of the atoms inside a harmonic trap to generate a probability distribution of the atom's initial position and velocity (x_0, y_0, z_0, v_x0, v_y0, v_z0). From that one can generate a random sample of such vectors, and then calculate the final position and kinetic energy after the evolution during the wait time \delta t. By comparing the final kinetic energy of the atom to the trap depth you can determine if the atom would have escaped or not. Performing these Monte-Carlo simulations for a range of temperatures then allows for fitting the simulated recapture probability to the experimental data. This procedure is also described in detail in Tuchendler et al., PRA 78, 033425-3 (2008). The tweezers are oriented along gravity, so the atoms will be accelerated along the weakly confined axis during the time of flight. 
The required experimental parameters are the atomic mass (174 u) and the transverse (2\pi * 135 kHz) and longitudinal (2\pi * 30 kHz) trapping frequencies.
